In this exercise you will develop a simple program that applies the knowledge that you have learned
in previous cultures in order to make global move and also display its position.
So to make things simple we're going to use the turtle simulator and the principle is the same if we
work with any other robot.
So you need first to start the simulator will you start using a scope and then you open another term
and you run a restaurant scene you know.
So you will have the 60 minute.
So now what do you want to do.
We want to develop a program that we publish command to see to make it work for a certain distance and
also that we subscribe to the topic that we provide us with the location of the position.
OK so what you can do YOU CAN OPEN THIS is your goal and get you that S or C finder.
You can create a new Finder that's called assignment.
Folder and then you can create a new file.
Nicolete Robert Moore
topics like so you can develop in Python.
You can also develop in C++.
OK so basically here we need to develop a subscriber in the same program code.
So the same as a subscriber for the topic that we show the location of that object that will be a publisher
to the topic that we make.
But of course the first question is what is the topic of the position and what is the topic that makes
around work.
So we need to find the topic needs of course and the usual way that we can do it is to use race topic.
And yet we have the list of all the topics available.
So it is clear from his lectures that the top post will represent the position of what and the topics
given.
It means command velocity.
It represented the topic that will make the robot move.
So what you can do you can actually take any of these scripts for example I'm going to start from the
listeners.
Let's start from the PALKOT script going just to copy exactly the same.
And then we make necessary changes.
So of course here you need to change the type of the message because in this case you're not going to
publish on the street message.
This was the case from the publisher's subscriber.
Simple applications.
But yet we are going to publish on the topic of the event which is going to contain information about
the speed.
So first thing I can say for example I would choose to be born here instead of the shuttle.
So I would create a publisher that Michelet publisher
OK it's going to be a publisher on the scene the main topic again later on I have to see how the public
side will change this later.
You need to change this later but now the second information yet.
So this topic is not of type string so I need to know what is the type of this topic.
So remember from a previous capture we have used this topic.
OK.
And the rest of the info allows us to find what is the information about this topic and one of the information
it gives as the title of the message that is used by these topics are the top of the message here is
your is just slash twist.
So with is the message of our list.
So this information is useful for us in the cold because now we're going to change this from a statement
with another one from Joe German to him as yes that and it's very important.
So you use the message.
So that message contains the information about the speed of the robot.
Whatever it is the linear speed or the angular speed.
Now the question how what is the content of this message that this is something that you have to know.
So just to give you another hint I remember from the lecture where we talk about intellectual topics
not endless messages we have used the command process and as we showed and then we can apply here the
type of the message that we want to see its content.
So look you know this message it contains two components one that is linear for the linear city and
the second one that is angular for the angular velocity.
And here that has x component y component and z component because any motion occurs in three dimensional
space.
In the case of courtesy you have only two dimensional space X and Y.
But for example if you are flying a drone we also have the z component with respect to the altitude
OK.
So on the other hand we also define the angular velocity that is the rotational speed or rotational
velocity which is also defined in terms of x y and z coordinates.
OK so you must know how to use this information in your Python code in order to define the velocity
of the message for example now I can give you some more hints.
OK.
So let's say we want to find a new velocity message.
So let me find it.
As to its object
this is the way and then what we can do.
So we defined it with object and then inside that was blood.
So we can select linear that x.
For example I want to make the robot move forward so I can assign a value 1.0.
And of course it can do other assignments for the velocity and inner cities.
So I to think about this in order to modify this method then you can make it for example move method
OK.
So you need to make the city changes in order to publish the message correctly.
So try to think about this exercise and later on you can see the solution that presents the you can
watch the video that presents the solution.
Just a final comment before I start working on the exercise.
Do not worry if you feel that you're facing a lot of difficulties because this is normal for new users.
And later on when the explanation we'll be able to understand more and more the concepts.
But before looking at the solutions try your best to solve this exercise and later on have a look at
the tailored solution with your.